# My 41189 Reflective Portfolio

## Week 2

# What have I learnt this week?
This second week I learnt about the science of many models, of which include the wisdom of the crowd theory-and how many models can help us to better comprehend and fix issues occurring in complex adaptive systems, this is a build up on our previous lesson at looking at what comprises a system, and how they are complex. 

# What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
There were many things I wasn’t aware of when it came to many models. But what I do know now is that models provide a variety of tools in which people can utilise, in order to experiment and test their ideas of how the world works, thus solving many real world issues that we constantly hear about. There will always be different perspectives on how to resolve issues, and it is imperative that modellers keep an open mind by exploring new possibilities. 

# What insights have I gained?
The insights I gained from this week’s content are that despite the various system complexities that surround us, there is still a way that we can find simplicity in them, so that we can make sense of it all and find solutions-and models help us do exactly that. They’re an abstracted form of reality. Therefore, the best model has parsimony where they convey realism. I was surprised to learn that modelling isn’t about being exceptionally skilled, as according to Cross and Moscardini(1985) who describe modelling as: *‘an art with a rational basis which requires the use of common sense at least as much as mathematical expertise.'* Another insight I gained from this week’s lesson, is that when it comes to modelling or observation, people like doing the former better, at least according to Klemesˇ (1997: 48): *‘It is easier and more fun to play with a computer than to face the rigors of fieldwork, which is usually most intensive during the most adverse conditions. It is faster to get a result by modelling than through acquisition and analysis of more data, which suits managers and politicians as well as staff scientists and professors to whom it means more publications per unit time and thus an easier passage of the hurdles of annual evaluations and other paper-counting rituals. And it is more glamorous to polish mathematical equations (even bad ones) in the office than muddied boots (even good ones) in the field.’* However, I think modelling and observation go hand in hand, you cannot always remain inside our comfort zone. As modelling does involve exploring the unknown possibilities. 

This all sort of reminds me of the Golden ratio used in nature- the Fibonacci sequence. The order goes like this: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144 and on to infinity, extending to forever beyond.  Of course, Fibonacci numbers aren’t everywhere in the natural world – as numerous flora and fauna have different number sequences. Just because a series of numbers can be applied to an object, that doesn't necessarily mean that figures and reality often match up with each other. As with numerological superstitions, sometimes a coincidence is just that. However, Fibonacci numbers appear in nature often enough to prove that they reflect some naturally occurring patterns. You can usually locate these by studying the manner in which numerous plants grow. We see Fibonacci in seed heads, pine cones, fruits and vegetables, flowers and branches, honeybees and the human body. 

# What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
For me, my perceived strengths are that I’m starting to understand how small things all aggregate up-and models have to include the inner workings of systems. I understand that not everything is what it seems on the outside or from the surface, everything and everyone has a great deal of depth to them-like we can only see 10% of the iceberg, not the 90% submerged in water. My perceived weaknesses are that I’m considerably narrow minded and set in my ways, although I am starting to expand my horizons and consider new ways of thinking and trying new tasks and activities. 

# What were the challenges I encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
The challenges I observed this week are that a great level of detail and knowledge are needed to create complex models and I need to learn how think outside the box. I need to learn how to critically and systematically think for myself. 

# What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
I would keep on experimenting with new models and thought processes through various applications as possible, so that I could learn the inner workings of each system and draw rapid conclusions from there. 

# What theory proved to be useful and why? What have I learnt from this?
The theory I feel that has proved to be most useful for this week is the Wisdom hierarchy, which shows relationships between data, information, knowledge and wisdom. However, in our fast paced world comes the wisdom of the crowd, where people have different opinions and ideas about what models to use-so it can be hard to feel like you know what you’re doing. However, the beauty of many model thinking is that people can use their ability to identify and apply relevant knowledge to the task/s at hand, so you can filter out many options being presented all at once, but still consider them at the back of your mind for later on. Many model thinking creates wisdom through a diverse ensemble of logical frames for us to look through, to see things in depth. 
